[Music]
scientists now think we may be able to
improve baby's language just by the way
we talk to them good communication
skills accelerate children's ability to
think and learn for themselves here at
Cambridge University professor Osia
goswami has set up an experiment to find
out the best way to talk to a baby I'm
gonna start the experiment I can see it
can only happen in the controlled
conditions of this tiny room it's
insulated to prevent electrical activity
interfering with these highly sensitive
baby brain scanners the team are using
this setup to find out what's happening
inside baby's brains when they listen to
perrenties that special way of speaking
that we all automatically seem to use
whenever we talk to babies perrenties is
a way of speaking that heightens pitch
exaggerate the length of words and is
very rhythmic now Elsie is taking part
in the experiment she listens carefully
to the parent ease but when it comes to
the normal speech she quickly loses
interest
this pattern of behavior is backed up by
other studies that show babies prefer to
listen to perrenties I continue I can
see you but what's happening inside
their brains but you can see the
brainwaves changing in real time when
OSHA analyzes the data she discovers
something extraordinary baby's brain the
electrical signaling is pulsing
basically in time with those big rhythm
patterns this brain synchronization is
represented in this situation but she
and her team are the first in the world
to show that perrenties contains these
large rhythmic modulations and that this
matters for babies developing brains so
this is incredible it is it is in effect
those big peaks in the signal of the
infant directed speech are being picked
up by the brain in a very nice
synchronous fashion babies brains react
like this because perrenties exaggerate
the rhythm of words when you speak to a
baby using perrenties you're providing
optimal input for the brain
you're basically enhancing the kind of
acoustic landmarks that the brain needs
to knock on to to be able to proceed
with the rest of speech processing which
is the most complex thing the brain does
actually it seems natural that we would
use guarantees that we always seem to do
without thinking about it but there are
lots of debates about whether that's
even the best way to do that I think the
evidence is really firmly in favor of
the fact that you should talk to your
baby as much as you can using parenting
[Music]
I know the LC responds better to me when
I speak in a baby speak let's see that
the science is proven that is amazing
I've often wondered why we all talk to
babies like that yeah all the men with
their toys it's their big toy the fact
that brainwaves actually sync up with it
it's really really incredible
[Music]
you